I want Alex to feel totally at home with
the basic ingredients of Indian cooking
and you don't get much more basic than
the chili well you really need to know
about chilies first of all if they have
to be really shiny shown and they're
really fresh but there's a difference in
color I always get confused which one
sponsor it's not about of what's hotter
the red one is just riper so sometimes I
find it a tiny bit more sweet it's a
subtle sweetness but they're both hot
these finger Chili's look really similar
to what I would use an Indian food the
kind of long slightly finger like
there's not much smell to it but when
you cut it open and it releases the
juices and the oils then you'll start
getting the real kick of the flavor
there are hundreds of varieties of
chilies not all are suitable for Indian
cooking generally the smaller they are
the hotter it's the seeds and membranes
that give the heat so don't rev any
delicate part straight after handling
them the flesh provides the flavor try
one not that I want you to try it just
because I want you to try it but
actually the only way if you know it's
hot is if you bite the end off
juicy juicy is good and
the spicy is spicy it's not extremely
spicy that it's probably spicy enough
Indian food if you want the taste
without the kick try cooking the
chillies whole if you can't get fresh
chilies dried ones are a good substitute
and they keep for ages if you want to
add color to a dish as well as heat use
chili powder but add sparingly some
chili powders are stronger than others
of course you don't have to use chillies
at all I know many Indians who never eat
them but I do think you're missing a
trick without them